---
layout: post
title:  "Japan"
date:   2018-07-15 16:10:55 +0530
tags: japan
---

It's 14th July 2018, and as I look out of the cab's window to see the bustling traffic of Mumbai. I find it hard to digest, that I wouldn't be nagging about the terrible Japanese food anymore or wouldn't be cycling through the lush green driveways to the University or watching endless youtube cooking tutorials trying my hand at cooking. At such instances one realises how fast time passes, it feels like yesterday, the day I arrived to land of rising sun, the paradise of anime and breathtaking technology, Japan. It was a journey that taught me innumerable things. Let's start from where it all began:

Sometime in December

I came to know about the summer internship in UTokyo, and after reading through the website, I decided that I should give it a shot. After filling in the details and submitting the necessary documents came in the part of LOR submission which I procrastinated about. With everything done and just the LORs remaining I was a bit laid back considering the deadline and was working on my inter-iit project that time, which was increasing at a fast rate and made me almost forget about the application. Remembering about it only after the new year and having to do a nail-biting completion of the form on the very last day of the application. After which I breathed a sigh of relief after it's competition and now, just had to wait for about a month for the results.

February

The results were out right on time, which was just the start of my experience with the perfection of the Japanese culture.

Visa Process

The visa process for Japan is most natural among all the countries that I have heard. I received my visa in three days and just had to submit all the documents sent by the University with a few essentials from my side. 

3rd June 2018

The first thing that you notice as soon as your enter Japan is the Japanese love for technology from toilets to billboards. The Mumbai rains caused a 3.5-hour delay of flight and we missed the bus that directly stops near the accommodation which meant taking 3-4 trains and the first thing that becomes prevalent is Japan still relies heavily on cash.